good evening from Downing Street where
I'm joined by professor Angela McLain
deputy chief scientific adviser and
Yvonne Doyle medical director public
health England before I provide an
update on the economic situation let me
start by addressing the issue uppermost
on people's minds personal protective
equipment or PPE this is an
international challenge that many other
countries are experiencing alongside the
efforts of British businesses and our
embassies around the world we are
working hard to get the PPE our
frontline NHS and social care staff need
we have appointed Paul Dayton formerly
chief executive of the London 2012
Olympics to lead on our domestic efforts
to make an increase the supply of PPE
and we are receiving shipments of PP
regularly from suppliers in the UK and
abroad we're working to resolve the
Turkish shipment of PPE as soon as
possible following some unexpected
delays at the weekend today we have
unloaded a shipment of a hundred and
forty thousand gowns from Myanmar and we
are of course continuing to pursue every
possible option for PPE procurement let
me now turn to the economic situation
exactly a month ago today I stood at
this lectern and said we would step in
and help to pay people's wages we
promised this support would be available
by the end of April today we deliver our
promise
HMRC opened the coronavirus job
retention scheme at eight o'clock this
morning as of four o'clock this
afternoon over a hundred and forty
thousand firms have applied and the
grants they'll receive will help pay the
wages of more than a million people a
million people who if they hadn't been
furloughed would have been at risk of
losing their job firms applying today
should receive their cash in six working
days
HMRC will continue to provide updates on
the number of people furloughed
let me put on record my thanks to the
thousands of staff at HMRC and HMT who
have made this happen people have come
out of retirement put aside their normal
duties and worked around the clock from
their kitchen tables and spare rooms to
get this new system up and running this
remarkable story of public service
reminds us how many different people are
playing a role in this crisis and I'm
very grateful to all of them for
everything they have done it's important
to be clear why we have introduced the
CJ RS and the other schemes we've put in
place to support the self-employed and
businesses we've never seen an economic
crisis like this one times like this
demand that we put aside ideology and
orthodoxy times like this demand that
the state turns to its most immediate
purpose the protection and support of
its people the goal of the new schemes
we've developed is to maintain as many
people as possible in their existing
jobs to support viable businesses to
stay afloat and to protect the incomes
of the self-employed to allow them to
trade again to maintain in other words
our economy's productive capacity so
that we can bridge through this crisis
that is what we have done and the Office
of Budget Responsibility said last week
that the situation would have been much
worse if it hadn't been for our actions
but in everything we have done even in
our defense against the immediate crisis
we have also been sowing the seeds of
our ultimate recovery as we look ahead
and start to plan for our recovery it is
critical we don't just maintain
companies and jobs that already exist
but that we also encourage the
businesses jobs and technologies of the
future innovation and entrepreneurship
have powered growth in our country for
centuries and it is what will drive our
growth as we recover from this crisis to
that end earlier today I launched two
initiatives to support the most in
ferns in the country worth 1.25 billion
pounds first we are launching a new
future fund worth 500 million pounds to
make sure that high-growth companies
across the UK can continue to access the
investment they need during this crisis
launching in May the future fund will
provide uk-based
early-stage companies with convertible
loans between a hundred and twenty five
thousand pounds and five million pounds
our future fund will match investments
made by private investors in early-stage
businesses on terms that protect the UK
taxpayer second alongside the new future
fund the business secretary Alok Sharma
has worked closely with innovate UK our
national innovation agency to provide
750 million pounds of grant and loan
funding for tens of thousands of highly
innovative firms in every sector every
region and every nation of the UK he
like I believes strongly in the role of
innovation and enterprise in recovering
our economy as I said last week right
now the most important thing we can do
for the health of our economy is to
protect the health of our people we must
continue to slow the spread of the virus
to make sure fewer people need hospital
treatment at any one time and protect
the NHS ability to cope today the
government's ongoing monitoring and
testing program reports five hundred and
1379 tests for coronavirus have now been
carried out including 19 thousand three
hundred and sixteen tests carried out
yesterday a hundred and twenty four
thousand seven hundred and forty three
people have tested positive an increase
of four thousand six hundred and seventy
six cases since yesterday 17 thousand
nine hundred and seventy one people are
currently in hospital with coronavirus
in the UK and sadly of those who have
been hospitalized 16 thousand five
hundred and nine have now died an
increase of 449 fatal
since yesterday our thoughts are with
the families and friends of all those
who have lost their lives as we look
forward towards the next stage in our
battle against this disease there are
encouraging signs we have that we are
making progress but before we consider
it safe to adjust any of the current
social distancing measures we must be
satisfied that we have met the five
tests set out last week by the first
secretary those tests mean that the NHS
can continue to cope that the daily
death rate falls sustainably and
consistently that the rate of infection
is decreasing that the operational
challenges have been met and most
importantly that there is no risk of a
second peak so I want to thank each and
every person across the UK who is
following the government's advice to
stay at home protect our NHS and
ultimately save lives thank you
let me now hand over to Angelo before
taking questions from the media thank
you the first piece of dates that we
have to look at this afternoon is about
that issue of how people are staying at
home so what we see here is a record of
how many people have been using
different kinds of transport since the
middle of March and what that shows is
how people have responded to this call
that all of us do need to stay home and
in particular what you see is that for
all kinds of public transport use now is
down to less than 20% of what it was
during February indeed rail and tube use
down by 95 percent so for all those
people who have stayed at home in order
to protect the NHS and save lives I
think you can look at this graph and say
pretty much everybody else is doing it
as well if I could have the next slide
please and that's reflected in these
data which are about new UK cases
running from the 21st of March to the
20th of April and what you see in blue
there is what are called pillar 1 people
people who've been tested positive so
that's most
people in hospital and then in the
orange on top is swab testing for key
workers and their households and the
relief that you get when you look at
that pics just to see that there's a
stopped rising and and there's now
pretty much stable and flat next slide
please
and that's reflected in these data about
people who are in hospital with Kovac 19
across the whole country that also
remains stable but here at London it's
now this is now the seventh day in the
row that those numbers have fallen so
that means that the balance between
people who are going into hospital
because they fallen ill and people who
are going home because they're well
again now is in the opposite direction
so that there are fewer people each day
in hospital with kovat we're looking
forward to seeing that pattern
replicated across other regions of the
country next slide please
finally we get to the slide comparing
how many people have died in the UK in
comparison with other countries we have
two different ways of keeping track of
that here we have the most of the very
up-to-date data which goes right to
yesterday and that's UK but only counts
deaths that occurred sadly for people
who are in hospital and those are deaths
by the date of registration and then
further back on that slide you can see
data from the UK for all settings and
that data takes longer to put together
and present so that's why on this slide
that data is only a shorter day to run
and with that I will finish so that we
can turn to questions Thank You Angela
could we turn first to Hugh Pym from the
BBC yes thank you I wanted to pick up on
the issue of PPE which you mentioned
we're hearing of continuing concerns
amongst some health and care workers
about PPE are you ashamed as a
government that there are some NHS staff
going into work who say they're worried
about their safety because they fear
their hospitals might run out of PPE
Thank You Hugh absolutely everybody work
incredibly hard on the front line
deserves to have the equipment they need
to be able to do their job safely and
we're working around the clock to make
sure that we can deliver on that
obviously a billion pieces of PPE
delivered I think 12 million yesterday
and as you heard from me we're improving
our sourcing internationally and
domestically to make sure we can get the
PPU we need but in what is their very
challenging international context but
people on the front line can rest
assured that we're doing absolutely
everything we can and straining
everything we can to get the equipment
that they need I don't know even if you
want to add anything Thank You
Chancellor so yes here it is of concern
and obviously we want people who are
working on the front line with patients
at high risk to have what they need and
over this weekend I know for instance
that 12 million pieces have been
delivered to 141 trusts and as has been
said there's incredible work going on
internationally in a very high burn rate
situation but also working to ensure
that people use the guidance that is
there in the most precautionary way to
make the very best use in a safe way of
what is available so a difficult
situation undoubtedly working very hard
to make it better and trying to get sure
to make sure we deliver to where it is
most needed thank you does that Hugh
answer the question yeah a quick
follow-up on a business issued
Chancellor some small businesses say
they're finding difficulty accessing
loans are you considering extending the
scheme and raising the government
guarantees thank you for the question so
I think on this question of the
guarantees and I'm not persuaded that
moving to a hundred percent guarantee is
there the right thing to do I think if
you take a step back and look at the sum
total of everything we've done to
support business we've done a lot of
direct cash support in the form of cash
grants that are going to businesses
we've obviously cut business rates for a
large number of businesses to a million
different businesses in each of those
are benefiting we're paying statutory
sick pay bills and of course we have a
very generous furlough scheme to help
businesses now some people have made
some comparison
what's going on in other countries I
think when you look at the totality of
what we're doing it's more significant
in scope and scale than most of those
other countries and indeed where they
have used loan guarantees that are
different to ours they've done it partly
because they're not doing some of the
other things we're doing for example the
furlough scheme or indeed the direct
cash grant but you know if people are
asking the question would that help
speed up delivery of the loans then I'm
very sympathetic to that and I also want
to see that I'm pleased to tell you now
the latest data I have is that 12,000
loans have now gone out to small
businesses that's more than double where
it was a week ago which was double where
it was a week before I think 35,000 or
so applications have been made the
acceptance rate seems to be running 80
to 90 percent so I think we're the signs
of progress there which I'm watching
very carefully and also working with the
British business bank and banks to see
if there are any other elements of the
process that we can streamline simplify
or strip out bureaucracy there are a
couple of operational tweaks that I
won't bore you with that we have made
just recently that will also help but
rest assured I'm watching it very
carefully to ensure that credit gets to
the businesses that do need it we go
next to a Robert Peston from ITV good
afternoon to you and the ONS seemed to
indicate today with its data that your
deaths in hospitals are under reporting
the total the totality of deaths from
Ovid 19 by as much as 40% do you think
that is right do you think that we will
when we get to the end of this see the
death rate roughly you know 40 percent
odd higher than the numbers you've
reported so far from hospitals the come
the Bank of England does think that a
hundred percent guarantees would
massively or significantly increase the
volume of loans to small businesses why
do you disagree with him Chancellor and
finally um the Prime Minister appears to
be signaling from his convalescence that
we will be living with something pretty
close to the kind of lockdown we've got
at the moment for many weeks and months
can you confirm that Thanks
Robert let me address the last two of
those questions I think what the
governor of the Bank of England was
saying was that it's important to get
credit flowing to companies there are
different ways to do that
I'll just as I reiterated my answer to
Hugh there's there's of course things we
can do to make sure that the speed of
the loan program is improved and that's
what we've put in place over the past
week or two there's also just direct
cash support that we've done for
businesses I think what he also said was
yeah there's obviously a fiscal cost to
all of these things and it's important
to have be mindful of that I think the
scale of the intervention we've done it
fiscally as I said is more significant
than almost any other developed country
and I think we've done it in a targeted
and effective way that will be most
beneficial to businesses to your second
question as I said we're in we've been
very clear at this stage of the crisis
we are absolutely focused on sticking to
the guidance we have near the first
actually set out five tests last week so
we're - for us to think about moving to
the next stage we are not there yet and
it so it's very clear that for now what
we should focus on it's following the
guidance staying at home to protect the
NHS and I think anything else that
people might be speculating on is wrong
with crystal clear on that message and
then perhaps on the data but if on would
that be the you to handle so Robert yes
it undoubtedly the hospital data do not
tell the whole story of total deaths and
this week as for last week we will have
a comprehensive view of that later in
the week from ons I don't know whether
it 40% is a correct figure I couldn't
really say that but I would expect more
and we know now from looking at the
pattern that 9 out of 10 deaths to occur
in hospital what I do feel is that the
burden of mortality outside of hospital
isn't evenly distributed throughout the
country it will mirror where for
instance there may be more care homes or
more hospices so we'll see an uneven
pattern of that but we'll certainly know
for sure later this week what the
comprehensive number is thank you
Robert could we turn next to Beth Rigby
from Sky Thank You Chancellor a question
first for professor dawn if I may some
of the bodies representing medic
it's a deaky concerned that public
health England have downgraded PPA
guidelines on Friday based on the
ability based on the availability of
equipment rather than safety standards
do you acknowledge that NHS staff are
potentially risking their own safety to
look after patients and just to the
Chancellor you've put the furlough
scheme in place until June you now have
some idea of take-up can you give us an
estimate of the cost and will you extend
it further if necessary thanks Beth
I say we don't we don't have an estimate
of take-up yeah it's just the first day
that the scheme is opened and as I said
I expect those numbers to continue to
increase over the coming coming days and
I'll provide regular updates on them I
think the OPR set out an estimate of
costs last week which I would refer you
to and we did extend it last week at
given where we are and given where we
are in the crisis and given where we are
in the state of the economy I thought
that was the right decision to provide
some long-term certainty for businesses
and security for their employees I can't
tell you now what the future will look
like we keep these things under constant
review and it will depend on the
evolution of how we move through this
crisis and move to the next phase and I
think with your specific question on PPE
Yvonne will answer I would say I think
in all cases you know we've taken advice
and guidance that is in line with the
w-h-o the CDC and public health England
but I'll live on specific absolutely
Chancellor and thank you Beth so the
guidance remains exactly the same what
has happened over the weekend is in to
cover people really and give them some
security in exceptional circumstances
advice has been produced jointly with
the NHS about how to be safe in
circumstances where supplies may be at
risk and that is a very precautionary
set of advice it is not actually it's
quite the opposite to putting people at
risk because there aren't enough
supplies it's trying to ensure the
people are well secured and safe when
there may not be enough supplies and it
also stresses how important it is not to
take risks and when it is not right to
do certain things and
practice with the PPE so it's very
important that people understand what
that is actually saying and it is advice
the guidance has not been downgraded is
that player Beth yeah just to follow up
professor oh just medics have told me
that they feel that the guidelines are
based on availability of equipment not
on safety standards and they feel
nervous can you understand why some a in
NHS workers might feel if they go to
work and they haven't got the equipment
they just can't stay in that environment
of course I understand people's
anxieties on the frontline where they're
in a very uncertain situation but I
would stress again that the advice has
been put out precisely to give them some
information in those kind of
circumstances about what is the right
and what is not the right thing to do
and it is built entirely on the guidance
that exists and it is consistent with
both w-h-o CDC say in exceptional
circumstances should be done Thank You
Vaughn thanks Beth could we go next to
Andy Bell from Channel five yes thank
you very much and really just to follow
up on that so if a worker in a care home
for instance or if a doctor or a nurse
in the NHS says I am not prepared to go
into my work because I'm not satisfied I
have the correct PPE that is appropriate
would you support their decision not to
go in so in these circumstances it's
very difficult to give local advice in a
local circumstance but what we're very
clear with guidance is that the guidance
tell you what is the right thing to do
and what is safe and that is very much
then based on people's judgement of that
it's use the risk assessment therein so
certainly and people have to make their
decisions based on whether they are in a
risky situation or not and it's very
difficult to legislate for all of that
from a distance here but just to say the
guidance is very clear on what is safe
and what is not safe to do yeah and can
I also ask you chances
representative the government to sort of
answer the question as well it's not
necessarily the local advice it's the
principle that if somebody feels they've
been put in that position is it okay for
them to say that and would you support
that well they have course should talk
to their their local managers who would
be better placed to advise deny on
exactly the local circumstances what we
have put in place is a hotline that
anyone can call to alert us to any
supply issues with PPE which I think has
been well publicized and everyone who's
on the frontline should be aware of that
but very much as I reiterated before you
know we are determined to do everything
we can to support those NHS and social
care workers on the frontline to make
sure that they feel safe in doing the
vital job that they are doing and as I
said we are doing absolutely everything
we can on the sourcing side to get them
the equipment they need and they can
rest assure that we will just work night
and day to do exactly that thank you
Andy can we go next to Richard
Partington the Guardian hi good evening
thank you very much going to ask about
the economy here Chancellor B the form
of Prime Minister Tony Blair says he is
terrified about the long-term economic
consequences of the lockdown measures
and do you share that concern and
reports over the weekend suggested that
Treasury analysis shows there will be
more permanent damage to the economy
than the OVR might and do you believe
there will be a deep and u-shaped
recession if lockdown goes on for longer
than three weeks and and what efforts
would you like to see for the lockdown
to be lifted and how long will that take
thanks Richard let me try to answer all
three of those together so I think in
terms of you know what do we need to see
in order for the lockdown to be lifted I
think that's been very clear first
secretary of states that out five tests
I reiterated those the most important is
the last one that we can't have a risk
of a second peak you know that would not
just be bad for health outcomes that
would also be very bad for the economy
so I would urge people to consider that
and we clearly have not passed those
tests yet which is why it's important
that we stick with the existing rules
around social distancing and to the
other questions you know all I say is
the obr themselves said we're in a very
uncertain
is to know exactly what will happen here
you would expect any responsible
Chancellor to make sure that we have
plans in place for a range of different
scenarios that's of course what we do
and that's what I'm doing but what I
would say is that the important thing
now is to put in place interventions
that will help bridge through this
difficult period to make sure that
recovery when it comes is as strong as
it possibly can be and an intervention
most significantly like the furloughing
scheme the job retention scheme today
that's a million people who otherwise
might well have been laid off but
instead they're still attached to their
employer ready to go back to work when
we get through this those are the kinds
of things that we're doing I think will
make a real difference and ensure that
our recovery is as strong as it possibly
can be but as I've said this will be a
challenging period we're not going to be
able to save every single job or every
single business but I am confident that
the measures we've put in place will
allow us to come out of this and and get
back to normal as quickly as possible
thank you if we could go next to tore
kill Crichton from The Daily Record all
right Thank You Chancellor Chancellor
you said you business on job supports
packages amongst the best in the world
but you're leaving behind thousands of
workers I'm self employed on a far from
perfect job retention scheme the Center
for economic and business research
forecasts every household would be 515
pounds worse off every month for the
next three months
do you hear Labor's calls for universal
credit to be reformed so the payments
are immediate so what the advance loans
are paid off and they SNP calls for a
better deal for the self-employed
because when you see you can't help
everyone it doesn't sound fair it sounds
callous
thank you talk we've gone to the
self-employed actually in other
countries I mean not every single
country has a scheme for self-employed
people for the because of the complexity
of dealing with it our scheme covers 95%
of those people who are majority
self-employed and who we have
information on and I think when we put
the scheme in place in conjunction with
all the various trade associations
representing self-employed it was an
accepted principle that of course we
could only design a scheme to
money to people who we had tax records
and information about otherwise any
scheme would be then open to enormous
abuse and fraud and that was a pretty
accepted principle we started with that
base we said we want to protect people
who were mainly self-employed that means
people who make the majority of their
income from self-employment and of those
we've protected ninety-five percent
that's almost four million people who
will at the beginning of June be able to
be apply and then receive payments in
exactly the same way as those who were
employed 80 percent of their average
self-employment income over the past few
years up to a maximum of two thousand
five hundred a month so we've actually
tried to treat them in it the same way
as possible and that will be up and
running reasonably reasonably soon with
regard to universal credit what I would
say is you talk about the way it is
possible for everybody to get payments
on day one from the beginning that
system then has been up in place for a
while to make sure people can get that
advance payment and they don't have to
wait that's something your work and
pensions Secretary has been very clear
about and implementing removing the
requirement for people to physically
attend a job center so they can do it
easily and quickly on the phone and also
we have injected about 7 billion pounds
into the welfare system to to strengthen
not just universal credit but Employment
Support Allowance the local housing
allowance to support renters all of
those aspects of the welfare system have
been strengthened so that the safety net
there will be stronger for people who
need to rely on it so whether it's the
furlough ski-in the self employment
steam all the interventions on the
welfare side I feel confident saying
that we have taken extraordinary
unprecedented steps to provide as big a
safety net for as many people as is
practically possible hopefully that that
deals with your three questions and can
we go next to Liam Thorpe from the
Liverpool Echo afternoon and thanks for
having me my first question is to
Professor McLean and on the 11th of
March Liverpool hosted a Champions
League match with Atletico Madrid in
which 3000 football supporters from
Madrid travelled across several major
international transport hubs despite
there being a major outbreak of corona
virus in Madrid at the time that left
many people dead on the same day the
deputy CMO jelly Harris
that the advice was that large events
like this were not a bit would not have
a big impact on the transmission of the
virus and and obviously gentlemen
festival went ahead as well we've since
in Liverpool seen a real surge in deaths
we have 250 people died in hospital many
more in the community and the Madrid
mayor has now come out and said that
hosting that specific football match at
that time was a real mistake I just
wanted him considering the advice then
changed and mass gatherings were then
and if the government is now prepared to
accept that was a mistake and that that
match and other events around the time
should never have gone ahead and and
quickly for the Chancellor if I'm a
Liverpool council like many town halls
across the country seemed to very much
better brunt of the austerity agenda
that followed the last financial crash
and as you I'm sure you will accept
councils across the country particularly
when it comes to social care are really
stepping up and leading the charge in
communities in tackling the coronavirus
I was wondering if you could give a
cast-iron guarantee to council two town
halls and local leaders that they will
not be the ones to pay the ultimate
price when it comes to the economic
impact and that they will get fair
funding settlement that won't cut the
people that they care for at more risk
I'm genuinely sad to hear that so many
people in Liverpool have been unwell and
so many have died I think what the
question you raised really has to be put
into the context of what was the general
policy at the time so if we were at a
bit of our recent history where we were
living our lives as normal in that
circumstance going to a football match
there's not a particularly large extra
risk however once you get to a situation
of our strange lives as we live them now
where we spend all our time basically at
home of course you wouldn't add on an
extra risk of lots and lots of people
all going off to the same place at the
same time I think be very interesting to
see in the future when all the science
is done
what relationship there is between the
viruses that have circulated in
Liverpool and the viruses that have
circulated in Spain that's certainly an
interesting hypothesis you raised there
Liam yeah I can address your other
question I used to be a local government
minister so I know firsthand the
incredible work that counts
up and down the country do and they have
risen to the challenge of tackling this
emergency amazingly well we absolutely
want to support them during this period
and get them the resources that they
need my colleague the local government
secretary just this weekend announced
1.6 billion pounds in incremental
funding for local authorities that
brings a total extra funding that we've
provided during this crisis to over 3
billion pounds to provide extra
resources to them to help them get
through provide the extra services they
are and demonstrates I think our
commitment to stand shoulder-to-shoulder
with all those people on the front line
whether there are local government
public servants or indeed those in our
NHS so I said hopefully we've delivered
on our commitment and will continue to
do so to support local government
discharge you have a follow-up yeah just
as it as the government's representative
here looking back at the first question
I asked they're considering that the
guidance changed and mass gatherings
were banned do you think the government
was too slow to cancel major sporting
fixtures like football matches and the
Chapman festival and we may now be
seeing the effects of that no I mean I
echo what what Angela said at every
stage in this crisis we have been guided
by the scientific advice and have been
making the right decisions at the right
time and it's important if you if you
listen to answer and her colleagues that
that's what we do there is a there's
often wrong time to put certain measures
in place thinking about sustainability
and everything else and all all at all
parts of this we have been guided by
that science we've been guided by making
the right decisions at the right time
and and I stand by that but more
generally of course as Michael Gove said
yesterday you know this is an
unprecedented situation that we're all
dealing with I'm sure there are all
things that we will learn from this as
I've been very open about but in terms
of the guiders that we put in place that
I believe it was the right guidance at
the right time based on the scientific
advice that we were provided with and
then Michael start from sifted I have
got two economic questions about the
startup fund and then one for Angela and
clay your first question for the
Chancellor this
just fund will likely mean that the UK
government will but pretty much the
first time own equity stakes and a large
number of UK startups it seemingly moves
towards a more French and German
approach where the state is regularly
taking equity stakes to help startups so
my question is do you believe this new
equity owning approach is strictly
temporary due to the crisis or does this
signal a broader shift in government
policy towards startups with taking
equity a new tool that's now really in
play for the government the second just
economic question sifted is a start of
itself where new media writing about
startups we know firsthand that a lot of
startups run with very short cash
runways there's obviously been some
criticism of the British business bank
in terms of delivering on some of the
other funds what assurances can you give
to startups that this money will come
quickly because six months may be too
late for a lot of hybrids autumn's and
then finally so just for Angela McLain
on a totally different topic the deputy
governor of the Bank of England today
said it wasn't clear if people would
return to what a normal life even after
restrictions lifted people are clearly
very scared do you have any behavioral
modeling which could predict how people
will respond when the lockdown is
eventually relaxed thanks Michael and
should you want to go first and then I
can conclude that's a terrific question
we we certainly spend a lot of time
speaking to behavioral scientists their
behavioral scientists on Sage we have a
whole subgroup called spy B which is
full of behavioral scientists and
everything we do we talk to them very
carefully about what they expect to
happen and they're very terrific very
careful scientists and I honestly think
if they were here now they would say
these are unprecedented times it's
really that makes it really quite
difficult to predict how people will
behave in the future so I'm very happy
to go
and ask them if they are thinking about
mostly what they do is is look for data
that can help us think through how
people will behave given how they
behaved in the past and whether people
will how much people will go back to
work should it become a when and if it
becomes available I think will be a very
hard thing to predict given just what
strange days were in thanks Angela
Michael thanks for your questions you're
absolutely right on the first one this
is not something that we've done before
so in that sense it's it is innovative I
would say it's a very specific response
to the unprecedented circumstances that
we find ourselves in which is why I
think it's the right decision to take a
slightly different approach historically
we have channeled government funding
through British patient capital as as
you would know into actual funds to fill
that gap and that's worked well for us I
would say look the UK is a cura peein
startup success story in terms of the
amount of venture capital raised in town
in terms of new companies created and
the ones that scale up and more than
most of Europe put together so
historically we haven't needed to do
something like this and in time it may
well be that we don't need to to have
this intervention as things get back to
normal but of course if something will
keep in in review now that we have it
and we'll be able to see how it performs
but as I said it is designed to support
what I think is one of the most dynamic
parts of our economy and will be vital
for getting us out of this and getting
growth back on to an upward trajectory
which is why I thought it was the right
thing to do today it does your second
question on timing
six months of the scheme will be open
until the end of September it will
actually be up and running in May the so
I would say that and the term sheet for
the convertible loan product that we
will match fund is available online at
the Gulf a website so for those people
who who think they might need to raise
capital I'd say go it go and have a look
at that term sheet if you think it might
make sense for you start putting your
round together confident that this will
be up and running in May and then we'll
be there ready to provide the capital
that you require to drive your growth
into the future whether that's you at
sifted or any of the other startups that
might be benefiting from from this
scheme
I think with that we are at the end so
thank you thank you very much thank you
and Yvonne and as everyone as always
please thank you for your compliance
with the social distancing guidelines
please do follow the rules there is as
the first actually said light at the end
of the tunnel but we are not there yet
so we must remember to stay at home
protect the NHS and save lives thank you
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC news live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder
UK forward slash news follow the story
for all the latest with BBC News